DataViz
=======

CIRCA data visualization project


**Project **

mAPPing innovation: Storytelling with community data. 

**Theme**

Data analysis and data visualization

**Task**

- Create scenarios of use for the database and based on the available data
investigate the possible niches which can be visualized. 

- Answer for who these scenarios and niches are interersting and why. 

- Query the database to make discoveries and test and proof your
findings. 

- Based on the findings create at least one design and/ or implementation
of a visualization.


**Theoretical Framework**

Blogs: 

[What is an app?](http://mur.mu.rs/?p=201)

[CIRCA Blog](http://circa-uva.tumblr.com/uva_aim_appsterdam) (more info
about the project)


Websites:

[Open Innovation Strategy and Policy
Group](https://sites.google.com/site/openinnovationplatform/home)

[Appsterdam](http://appsterdam.rs)


Articles: 

[Open Innovation as structural
capital](http://files.openinnovation-platform.eu/policydocs/unlocking_digital_future_final.pdf)

[A review of Edward Tufte’s “Beautiful
Evidence”](http://yuriweb.com/tufte/)

[Narrative Visualization: Telling Stories with
Data](http://vis.stanford.edu/files/2010-Narrative-InfoVis.pdf)

[Data wars: everything explain to
everyone](http://www.denieuwereporter.nl/2010/01/data-wars-alles-uitleggen-aan-iedereen/)

[The database as a narrative form, but how do you tell the
story?](http://www.denieuwereporter.nl/2010/02/de-database-als-vertelvorm-maar-hoe-vertel-je-het-verhaal/)


Video:

[Steve
Keil](http://thenextweb.com/conference/amsterdam/2012/talks/video/LOk_BiLfn2E),
keynote at Next Web

[Neelie Kroes, Vice President of the EC for the Digital
Agenda](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Aa3YpIztu-g)

[](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Aa3YpIztu-g)\


**Inspiration and examples**

Visualizations:

Interactive infographics

[Visualizing information flow in
science](http://well-formed.eigenfactor.org/radial.html)

[Newsmap](http://marumushi.com/projects/newsmap)

[Visual Complexity website](http://www.visualcomplexity.com/vc/) 

[http://infosthetics.com](http://infosthetics.com)/

[http://www.informationisbeautiful.net](http://www.informationisbeautiful.net)/

[visual complexity](http://www.visualcomplexity.com/vc/)

[Information is Beautiful](http://www.informationisbeautiful.net/)

[FlowingData](http://flowingdata.com/)


Video:

[Hans Rosling](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jbkSRLYSojo)

[Gapminder.org](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ax7yGMuH1iE)

[Chart Wars: the political power of data
visualization](http://infosthetics.com/archives/2010/01/chart_wars_the_political_power_of_data_visualization.html) 

[Interview with Manuel
Lima](http://digup.tv/index.php?rub=videos&item=70)

[Journalism in the Age of
Data](http://datajournalism.stanford.edu/index.html)

[NY Times
Visualization](http://visualjournalism.com/amanda-cox-in-denmark-for-new-media-days/2010/11/18/)

[Netherlands from above
trailer](http://www.vizualism.com/download/vpro/190-trailer-netherlandsfromabove)


**Project Objectives **

The project is developed under the framework of the **Creative
Industries Research Center Amsterdam** (CIRCA), department of
Humanities, **UvA**, coordinated by Prof. J. Simons and Dr. S. Olma. 


CIRCA collaborates with
Appsterdam ([appsterdam.rs](http://appsterdam.rs/)) and AIM for creating
a hard database of the App Industry and use visualization techniques to
provide insights on the data subsets generated. 


The database created will be handed to the MediaLAb students for further
data analysis, research and developing case-studies.


The project will introduce students to database structures and
information visualization. Students will work in a multidisciplinary
team. The team will develop concepts for implementing an interactive
application for the visualization and navigation of self-chosen data. 


**Project Partners**

UvA

AIM

Appsterdam

